Instructor: In the previous lectures,
we covered how to sniff and read data
from HTTP,
HTTPS, and preloaded HSTS websites.
We spoke about the limitations of each of these cases,
but we did that as we are going through the lectures.
Therefore, I feel like some of the details might be missing,
and therefore I made this table right here,
and I'm gonna show you some examples in this lecture
just to lay everything down for you
so you understand exactly
how this is gonna work and what are the limitations.
So first of all, we spoke about HTTP websites,
and an example of this would be a website
that doesn't use HTTPS, it just loads of our plain HTTP,
similar to Vulnweb.com.
Then we spoke about HTTPS websites,
and this would cover most websites on the internet.
So examples would be linkedin.com,
Winzip, Stack Overflow, Google, the local Google,
so not google.com, but the google.ie or .co.uk,
or .in, any local Google domain and netflix.com.
Now the list here could go on for very long
because like I said, most websites use HTTPS.
And finally, we spoke about the most restrictive
and the most secure method of communication,
which is preloaded HSTS websites.
And the way this works,
we said the web browser itself will have a list
of hard coded websites that will only load over HTTPS,
and therefore because the browser
has to contain this list locally,
it will not contain all websites on the internet.
It only contains very popular websites, such as Twitter,
Facebook, and GitHub and so on.
Now, we could have a bigger list in here,
but it won't be as big as HTTPS websites
as most websites use HTTPS.
Now, when it comes to HTTP, no encryption is used,
so there's nothing you need to do to bypass.
So you can basically use the basic Bettercap,
no modifications at all,
and it works perfectly with Firefox and Chrome.
So you'll be able to read the data
and even modify it
as we're gonna show you later on in the course.
Then when it comes to HTTPS and HSTS,
we can't decrypt HTTPS,
and therefore what we try to do
is we try to downgrade HTTPS
to HTTP.
And then when the website is loading over HTTP,
we will be able to read all of the data
that is being sent and received.
So we'll be able to see the usernames
and the passwords and so on.
And as I'm gonna show you later on in the course,
you'll be able to modify this data.
So you'll be able to launch attacks like DNS spoofing,
where we redirect the domain to another location
or inject code in the loaded website.
But all of that is dependent on loading the website in HTTP.
Therefore, when it comes to HTTPS and HSTS,
the goal is always to downgrade that website
or downgrade that connection to HTTP.
So for this to work, we used a custom modified Kali
that comes with the latest version of Bettercap
and a modified HSTShijack caplet.
This is the caplet that downgrades HTTP to HTTPS.
And this works perfectly with the latest version of Firefox.
So let me show you a quick example.
We're gonna load Bettercap with the HSTShijack caplet
and then try to load some of these websites.
And the goal is that these websites should load in HTTP,
not HTTPS.
If that happens, that means we can read all of the data
and analyze it, and we can even modify it
as I'm gonna show you later on in the course.
So right here in my Kali machine,
I'm just gonna start Bettercap
exactly the same way as we usually do.
I'm selecting my interface and my spoof caplet,
and then I'm gonna start the HSTShijack caplet
by typing hs Tab, and it'll auto complete for me.
I'm gonna hit Enter, and now it's working.
And let's go to the Windows machine.
And as you can see,
it's telling me that I'm using the latest version
of Firefox.
And let's go ahead, before we test,
I'm just gonna remove all browsing data.
So I'm gonna press Ctrl, Alt and Delete,
and we're gonna tick everything,
make sure everything is selected in here,
and click on OK,
and let's go ahead to the first HTTPS website,
like linkedin.com.
And Perfect.
As you can see, the website is loading over HTTP,
not HTTPS, because we can see this cross over the lock,
but most people won't notice this.
And basically, like I said,
that means we can read whatever username and password
the user will put in here,
and we can modify the data and inject data in this.
And you'll see this later on in the course.
Now, I'm not gonna log in now
because we've already seen this.
The goal now is just to show you
which websites are gonna downgrade to HTTP,
and even if you don't see the login data,
now, if I log in and you don't see it in Bettercap,
that is completely fine
because the sniffer that comes with Bettercap
is not perfect.
I will show you better sniffers later on in the course.
So the main goal when we're using Bettercap
is to be able to downgrade HTTPS to HTTP.
So let's load another HTTPS website
like stackoverflow.com,
and perfect,
as you can see, it's downgrading as well.
And let's do a last one. Now, let's go to netflix.com.
And again, perfect.
It's downgrading, it's loading over normal HTTP.
So we haven't done anything different
from what we covered earlier.
Everything is working perfectly with Firefox.
Now, when it comes to Chrome, there is a slight modification
that we'll need to talk about.
So let's continue testing with Firefox.
So moving on to preloaded HSTS websites
similar to Twitter, Facebook, and GitHub.
Again, for this to work,
we're gonna have to use the custom Kali with Bettercap,
with the custom HSTShijack caplet.
Now, let's go ahead and test it with Firefox.
So the way this will work,
as mentioned in the HSTS bypass lecture,
the target will first have to load a normal HTTPS website.
An example would be a local Google domain, for example,
google.ie,
or google.in,
or google.co.uk, anything but the google.com,
because these use normal HTTPS
and therefore, we will be able to downgrade them
to normal HTTP, as you can see in here.
And then once they are on any website
or any search engine that uses normal HTTPS,
and we successfully manage to downgrade it to HTTP,
if they search for a HSTS website, for example, Twitter,
the HSTShijack caplet is gonna replace the link
for twitter.com with twitter.corn.
Therefore, that will bypass the hardcoded list
that the browser comes with
because it does not have an entry for a website
that is called twitter.corn.
So if I hover my mouse over here,
you can notice at the bottom,
the website that we will go to is twitter.corn
and not twitter.com.
Now this replacement takes a second or two.
So if you hover over it straight away,
as soon as the website loads,
you might actually notice twitter.com.
And then instantly it's gonna change to .corn.
Once it changes, if the user opens this,
you're actually gonna get a redirect notice like this one,
that will not work automatically.
So this is another limitation with this method.
But if the user actually goes ahead
and loads the website,
you will notice that we will get a website
that is identical to Twitter,
which we can use to sign in or sign up,
but the website is loading over normal HTTP,
not HTTPS.
And if you note, it's twitter.corn, not .com.
So if the user looks in here,
they might be able to notice
that something is fishy happening,
but I would say it'll pass most users.
So now that the website is loading over normal HTTP,
you can first of all read the data the user sends,
for example, usernames and passwords,
and you'll also be able to manipulate this page
and inject evil code in it,
and we will cover that later on in the course.
Let's have another example.
So let's close these and let's go ahead
and look for Facebook.
Again. Facebook is another example of a website
that uses HSTS.
If we hover over it, you can see already it's been replaced
to facebook.corn.
So let's open it in a new tab
and open it again,
and perfect.
As you can see, Facebook loads normally over HTTP
and not HSTS
or HTTPS.
Again, once the user logs in,
you're gonna be able to capture the username
and the password
and you'll be able to manipulate this page.
So that's everything for Firefox.
HTTP obviously works with no issues at all.
HTTPS also works with no issues at all.
And HSTS, you just need to make sure
that the target websites are listed
in the HSTShijack caplet,
and I show that in the HSTShijack lecture.
So if you don't know how to do that, please revise that.
But as you can see, it's working exactly as expected,
as long as the target user accesses the HSTS website
through a normal HTTPS website.
Now, in the next lecture,
we'll have a quick recap for Chrome,
because Chrome is slightly different
and could be slightly trickier.